OT Cybersecurity Glossary

## Air Gap: 
An age-old term used
to describe the disconnection
of a device or system from a
network or the internet at large.
Air gaps were once the primary
means of industrial cybersecurity
protection. Today they’re not only
ineffective and outdated, but they
also rarely exist with the rise
of IT/OT integration and digital
transformation.


## Common Industrial Protocol(CIP):
An industrial protocol
for industrial automation
applications that is supported
by the Open DeviceNet Vendors
Association (ODVA). CIP is
often at the nexus between OT
and IT networks. It is used in
industrial settings to integrate
applications that govern control,
safety, synchronization, motion,
configuration and information
in industrial equipment with
enterprise-level IT networks
and the internet. EtherNet/
IP, DeviceNet, CompoNet, and
ControlNet protocols all fall under
the CIP protocol umbrella.


## CRASHOVERRIDE: 
The first-ever
malware framework designed and
deployed to attack energy assets
in Ukraine in December 2016.
Critical Infrastructure: Assets,
machinery, systems and
networks that provide functions
that are necessary to maintain
our modern way of life, including
those that provide power, water,
telecommunications and
manufactured goods to society at
large.

## Crown Jewel Analysis: 
A process
of mapping an OT environment
and identifying the most valuable
assets—including facilities,
networks and systems crucial to
business missions or under high
safety thresholds—that would be
the first place to start in bolstering
OT cybersecurity monitoring
and controls and appropriately
managing OT cyber risk.

## Cybersecurity Management System (CSMS): 
A methodical
approach to developing an
ICS cybersecurity program as
recommended by the IEC 62443
set of cybersecurity standards.
Data Logger: A software database
that collects and stores data
generated by ICS assets. They’re
typically high-performance
databases capable of processing
and storing high volumes of realtime data. Also referred to as data
historians or process historians.
Data Historian: A software
database that collects and
stores data generated by ICS
assets. They’re typically high performance databases capable
of processing and storing high
volumes of real-time data. Also
referred to as process historians
or data loggers.

## Distributed Control Systems (DCS): 
A process control system
that connects autonomous
controllers, sensors and actuators
in a distributed system with no
centralized operator supervisory
control. DCS control loops are
designed for reliability and unlike
SCADA, DCS is typically controlled
and managed on premises rather
than remotely.

## Embedded Device: 
A small
computer system-usually
comprised of hardware and
software—designed to carry out
a very specific function within
a larger computer system or
device. ICS systems are usually
comprised of a tapestry of
embedded devices.

##Field Device: 
Industrial
equipment that controls actions or
measurement. Field devices can
include sensors, actuators, and
valves.

## Fieldbus I/O Modules: 
An interface module between a
central processor and industrial
machinery. They allow field input
devices like sensors and switches
to communicate with field output
devices like valves, drives and
indication lights.

## 5 Critical Controls: 
SANS Institute
identified five critical controls
for organizations to align ICS/
OT cybersecurity with their IT
cybersecurity readiness. These
five controls are: 

1. ICS incident
response plan,

2. A defensible
architecture,

3. OT-specific
visibility and monitoring,

4. Secure remote access,
5. Risk based vulnerability management.


## Human Machine Interface (HMI):
A hardware or software interface
in which an operator can interact
with an industrial controller.
HMIs can include everything
from physical control panels to
software-based dashboards.


## Industrial Automation and Control System (IACS): 
A
synonymous term for an
industrial control system (ICS)
used by the ISA/IEC 62443 series
of standards.


## Industrial Control System (ICS):
A generalized term that refers to
the broad class of systems used
to control and monitor industrial
machinery and processes. ICS
typically includes both hardware
and software components that
can perform a range of tasks that
include carrying out programmable
actions on physical processes,
remote diagnostics, maintenance
actions and human interface.
Some common components


ICS Network: A collection of ICS
devices and applications that are
connected together (and often to
the internet and/or IT networks)
to optimize automation and
remote supervision of end-to-end
industrial processes or facilities.
Industrial Internet of Things
(IIoT): A collection of industrial
sensors, telemetry and devices
connected to each other
and the Internet, providing
communication between
physical devices and cloud-based
processes. IIoT is sometimes
conflated with ICS but is distinct
through its use of IoT reference
models that lean heavily on 5G
connectivity and IoT gateway/
edge connections, send data
outside enterprise confines and
are not constrained by Purdue
model hierarchies.
IT/OT Convergence: The
integration and interconnection
between IT and OT systems 


to improve automation and
efficiency and facilitate the
exchange and analysis of relevant
data within industrial settings.
Loss of Control: The malfunction
in an OT system that obstructs or
changes an operator’s control over
a system due to a cybersecurity
incident or other digital reliability
issue. LOC could include
malicious changes to device state
to cause hazardous conditions
or shutdowns, or unintentional
failures due to activity elsewhere
in the ICS network.
Loss of View: The malfunction
in an OT system that disrupts
the flow of data around a process
due to a cybersecurity incident
or other digital reliability issue.
LOV could include complete
loss of visibility into a process
or a distortion of data due to
either malicious manipulation or
unintentional damage.
MITRE ATT&CK for ICS: A
comprehensive cybersecurity
framework for identifying,
assessing and mitigating
cyberattacks on industrial
networks.
Open Device Vendors
Association (ODVA): A standards
organization and trade
association for companies that
make industrial equipment that
leverages industrial automation
applications. ODVA oversees the
protocol CIP.
Open Platform Communications
(OPC): A set of software standards
that coordinates how control
devices communicate industrial
plant floor data to automation
applications.
Operational Technology (OT):
Programmable systems or devices
that interact with the physical
environment or manage devices
that interact with the physical
environment.
OT-Native Cybersecurity:
Cybersecurity monitoring and
control systems purpose-fit
for unique design, availability,
and safety concerns of OT
environments. These stand in
contrast to IT systems that are
retrofit for limited usage in OT
environments, but which could
cause blind spots in visibility
or interfere with availability or
safety goals.
Process Control Network (PCN):
An industrial network that
connects equipment that powers
physical processes, including
machinery, lighting, conveyors,
HVAC and appliances to control or
automation systems.
Process Historian: A software
database that collects and
stores data generated by ICS
assets. They’re typically highperformance databases capable
of processing and storing high
volumes of real-time data. Also
referred to as data historians or
data loggers.
Programmable Logic Controller
(PLC): A ruggedized industrial
computer used to control
operational actions or outputs of
industrial machinery based on the
inputs it monitors from that piece
of equipment. PLCs are usually
small and modular. They can
frequently be rack-mounted into
devices with thousands of inputs
and outputs that are networked to
other PLC and SCADA systems.
Purdue Model: A hierarchical
architectural/control model (also
known as a reference model)
that breaks up OT and IT into
six functional levels from Level
0 to Level 5. At the bottom is
the physical level of equipment
like pumps, compressors, and
valves at Level 0. At the top is the
enterprise network equipment of
Level 5. The model is devised to
help visualize and conceptualize
the layers of restrictions and
security controls between levels
of connection and traffic.
Remote Terminal Unit (RTU):
A microprocessor-controlled
electronic device that connects
industrial field devices to ICS
networks. They’re the interface
between a physical process and
digital systems like SCADA and
DCS that control, monitor and
automate them.
Safety Instrumented Function:
Functions that take an industrial
process or device to a safe
state when a hazardous or
unsafe condition is detected.
An SIF is carried out by a safety
instrumented system (SIS).
Safety Instrumented System
(SIS): A system of hardware
and software controls within
industrial machinery designed
that shuts down equipment when
it detects dangerous conditions.
Also commonly referred to as
emergency shutdown systems
(ESS) or safety shutdown systems
(SSD), SIS is usually comprised of
a combination of sensors, logic
solvers and control elements.
Safety Integrity Level (SIL): The
measurement of performance
of a safety system in industrial
environments, typically
calculating the relative level of
risk-reduction provided by a
safety integrated function (SIF).
Safety Network: An industrial
network that communicates
real-time signals from physical
processes to ICS systems that
can trigger the shut-down
of machinery in the event of
dangerous malfunction or
operator error. CIP Safety and
Fail Safe over EtherCAT (FSoE)
are two common safety network
protocols.
Supervisory Control and Data
Acquisition (SCADA): A type
of ICS that uses computers and
networked communication
to supervise a variety of field
devices across an industrial
environment. It offers a universal
means to manage processes
across facilities, either locally or
remotely.
Supervisory Controller: A server
that runs the software that
communicates with, controls, and
automates functionality of field
devices like remote terminal units
and programmable. Also referred
to as a SCADA server.
Stuxnet: The first real example of
ICS-specific malware. Discovered
in 2010 and likely in development
for five years before that, it
targeted programmable logic
controllers and was used to
disable Iranian nuclear centrifuge
equipment.





or subtypes of ICS include DCS,
SCADA, PLC and HMI systems.
